The findings of this survey study suggest that the construction of author voice by the reader does occur in the reviewing of blind manuscripts for scholarly publication in fields related to writing and applied language studies and that this construction can often be traced to discursive and nondiscursive features of a manuscript—particularly those that deviate, either positively or negatively, from a perceived norm. Identifying the features that lead readers to construct author voice in certain ways remains a difficult empirical task, however. Given the self-reported nature of this study (and many other previous studies of the blind-review process), the findings are only an approximation of what may be the case. Because people process sociolinguistic information such as gender and language differences subconsciously, participants may become aware of their own construction of author identity only on reflection. Yet at this point, researchers may need to rely on reviewers’ self-report, which is typical in studies of blind manuscript reviews (including the present study) or conduct detailed qualitative analyses of a relatively small number of participants, as we did in our previous study. Because we surveyed specialists in language- and writing-related fields only, we cannot extend our conclusions to reading processes in other fields, particularly the “hard” sciences, though this is certainly a worthy area of further research. It is possible that our respondents, as specialists in writing and language, paid more attention to the ways in which a text reveals (at least in the reader’s eyes) certain aspects of author identity than a biologist or engineer might. It may also be the case that other dimensions of identity— such as who an author studied with or what epistemological orientation he or she adopts—take on greater importance for readers in other fields of study or for other journals. Again, we hope that these questions will be taken up in future studies. Though our study suggests that content and rhetorical features are more important than linguistic features in signifying author voice to many reviewers, our findings do corroborate the role that deviation from a perceived norm— whether it be in relation to topic, disciplinary breadth, or linguistic variety— can play in constructing author identity. Preferred voices within academic writing are, after all, those that display some sort of symbolic capital for the reviewers. As Starfield notes, student writers “whose meanings are already more legitimate, who speak and write the legitimate language, have a greater likelihood of becoming successful”. We make no claims here regarding the outcomes of such perceptions of the manuscript reviewers we surveyed, and indeed Flowerdew’s survey study of journal editors found that editors in the same fields we studied often made a special effort to support non-native English writers and felt that their manuscript reviewers were generally also supportive of these writers. Nevertheless, reader construction of voice within contexts of assessment and gatekeeping certainly does have the potential to serve as a mechanism for cultural reproduction, with readers favoring texts and writers who uphold established disciplinary norms. Findings related specifically to the blind manuscript review process have particular relevance to research into the sociopolitical dynamics of scholarly publication, a line of inquiry that has flourished in recent years. Though the focus of many of these studies has been on publication processes and practices of relative novices and of multilingual scholars, issues of author identity are often alluded to, both implicitly and explicitly. Non-native English-speaking scholars in Flowerdew’s and Curry and Lillis’s case studies, for instance, expressed concern about the extent to which reviewers perceive them as non-native English writers, saying, “If the style or the form of the paper is not native or not current, reviewers think that ‘this is a stupid man, this is not acceptable material’”and “What makes me feel bad is I get letters from the reviewer, and in the first two sentences it will say this is definitely not written by a native speaker. Similarly, in her study of scholars writing from peripheralized non-English-dominant locations, found that writing style was the most frequent area of comment within manuscript readers’ reviews, and it was nearly always negative for these writers. In the present study, Respondent 10’s comment, quoted in the previous section, does seem to substantiate these concerns. Beyond the blind manuscript review process, our study has implications for understanding reader construction of author identity in academic writing. We have shown that readers tend to form impressions of or actively construct identities for authors, even when the author’s autobiographical identity is erased from a text. This same process may occur in other contexts, such as classroom assessment and written placement tests. A better understanding of how readers construct voice (and, therefore, authorial identities) has potential benefits for writing teachers and program administrators. Our study suggests that such construction is shaped by the rhetorical task (evaluation), the subject position of the reader (reviewer, gatekeeper), and the reader’s own values (disciplinary, epistemological, style, etc.) This study also highlights the need for a theoretical distinction between the identities that writers hope to project and the identities that readers assign. As Lemke states, “We construct our own identities out of the options afforded to us by our general positionality and our particular trajectory of experiences, encounters, options for action, etc.”; similarly, readers construct our identities out of their positions, experiences, encounters, options, and so on. Furthermore, the voice that readers construct is not the product of a single author’s voice—rather, it is the product of comingling voices of the author, the texts he or she has encountered, the desired projected identities of the author, and the voices of the “shapers” and “literacy brokers” who have been a part of the writing (and, in some cases, publication) process. When considered in this light, identity—both autobiographical and constructed—becomes dynamic, potentially contradictory, and fully rhetorical.
