In 1967 a French philosopher called Roland Barthes declared the authors death in his essay about authorship, “The Death Of An Author”.In this essay he states that “giving a text an author imposes a limit on that text”, so he emphazises that the author should not be present in the work. What is the relevance of this statement today? And what is the relation between the ability of free interpretation of a work and the authors presence? I believe that nowadays the concept of an author has changed because of the rapid changes of the modern world, causing the decrease of the relevance of the presence of an author. An author is no longer relevant in a work, because the viewer is the most important interpretator of a work. Barthes’ statement about limiting a text by the presence of an author, concerns in my opinion also for art or actually any other kind of work. There are more ways to define something and by knowing the author’s meaning of the work, it’s blocking you from thinking about it from your own perspective. The specific view of an author can obstruct the work, as it labels the (art)work – for example as art– which hinders the many possiblilities of the context. By leaving this view out of the work, by declaring the author’s death, the reader/viewer/audience now have acces to find their own definition of the work. New oppurtinities arise, including free interpretation, by that I mean to have your own, individual view on a certain subject, as in this case: on all forms of (art)work. There is a shift in the presentation of work, as (art)works nowadays are also presented on social media, instead of only in the traditional exhibition spaces. This shift causes new audience to emerge. Take Tumblr for example, an online platform for creating your own (visual) blog by reblogging (posting someone else’s posts). The participants of this website are not always art-related, so when the engage with art, it’s possible that they aren’t aware of this. Brad Troemel, an American blogger and one of the inventors of the Tumblr “The Jogging”, calls this kind of audience “accidental art audience” in his essay about decontextualized art on social media. “These audiences share images and videos initially conceived as artworks without any concern for authorship, context, or property — without any particular awareness that they are engaging with “art” at all”, Barthes states. By this decontextualization, by removing a work from it’s orignal context (so by placing it on social media instead of in a museum), the work is allowed to be seen as something different than how the work is originally meant to be seen. Coming back Barthes and the death of an author, we can also question the idea of an author itself. This is an issue for authorship in general, as all boundaries are fading because of the increasing collaboration. If you work in a team or you work for a client, then who is the author? An impossible question to even start with, as after years of writing and publishing there is still not a concrete definition of this term. How can you claim individual authorship as the concept is devised by a team and the work is completed by someone else? Hereby an example from a television interview with the Dutch designer Daan Roosegaarde. Roosegaarde is being associated with the entire design and product as he’s the only designer, but in reality there is a whole team (read: hunders of engineers, scientists, researchers) behind the total concept. One contributor brought forth this fact and expressed his opinion about this on national television, which caused a conflict between the team and the ‘final’ designer. Saying you’re the author of something has become impossible to live up to. Not only the idea, but also the context of an author has changed. From seeing the author as a genius creator, whose thoughts where seen as great importance, to the author nowadays – a collaborative creator who produces amongst many others. The changed role of an author nowadays has mainly resulted from the impact of digital publishing, as previously mentioned. The author’s role is no longer prominent or leading, as the credits are displayed by a simple hyperlink and the audience isn’t aware of it’s engagement with the (art)work. To refer back to the free interpretation in relation to decontextualization by the absence of an author; in some environments your ideas, expectations and interpretations about art are shaped in such way that it could cause some problems as well, here explained with a somewhat extreme example: “Woman Stabbed at Art Basel, Patrons ‘Thought It Was Performance Art’” This headline was in all the newspapers of december 2015, when at a art gallery in Miami, there was a stabbing. A 24-year old student got stabbed numberous times, while many visitors stood around and watched, assuming it was an art performance. The art performance scene is pretty extreme and experimental (see: Marina Abramović’s performance “i was ready to die”), so in the context of an exhibition space this was more likely to be seen as art. In some environments the context is too dominiant, which could cause these kind of problems. Everything that’s happening within this area, herby an art-gallery, is being seen as art. If the audience had thought logically about what they actually saw and not had generalized everything within that gallery as art – then it wouldn’t have happened. Not everything what is happening within a specific context has to relate to that context. The generalized context of an art gallery in which everything is seen and labeled as art has to decrease, as that’s clearly not always the case. This also relates back to the author. Not everything that a certain author does has to be seen within the context of that author. The author does not have to be seen as a godauthor. The context where an author is put in blocks the audience from thinking freely. Another counter argument might be that the absence of an author can lead to misrepresentation and misinterpretation of an individual’s knownlegde. A lot of art is made to be a critical or political statement, or to express the author’s opinion about a certain ocurrence. If you don’t know the author’s background -meaning age, location, time period and other works- you might miss the whole interpretation and reference of the author’s work. If you didn’t see that certain happening on the news, how are you suppost to understand the work? For example, Ai Weiwei’s tribute to the death of a 3-year-old child laying on a beach in Lesbos. If you didn’t see the famous photo on the news, you don’t get the meaning of the work. Actually, talking about Ai Weiwei’s work “Ai Weiwei remembers Alan Kurdi on Lesbos” also brings me to my argument. As I have nothing against Weiwei’s work in general, I believe this work is kind of controversial and deals with the wrong kind of critisism. With this “critical” work he is trying to create awareness for refugees, but this “art piece” says nothing at all about the refugee situation. They only thing he did, was recreating a happened occurence. In this case he is an artist, a observer, not a participant. What does he want to achieve with replicating an image of an 3-year-old’s kid on a Lesbos beach? By putting himself in the center of the photograph, it looks like an egotistical action. Within some works, the viewer has a different interpretation than the authors intention. As a viewer you have to be able to disagree with an (art)work, whereby it’s important that the author’s presence isn’t blocking your opinion about this work. Your interpretation is in this case more important. The death of an author is still relevant today, even more than before. The changed enviroment of work allows viewers to see it out of it’s original context, which increases the amount of different interpretations. The author’s presence should not limit the viewers interpretation of a work, because the viewer is the most important interpretator of a work. 
